Welcome to all.
We have with us, Brother Robert Lucioni, a helper to the publishing committee, to read our
scripture text for today.
Today is Saturday, March 27.
The text is taken from Romans 8-16.
The spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are God's children.
Thank you, Rob.
It is my great pleasure to welcome all of you in our Worldwide Brotherhood to our morning
worship program.
And what a very special day this is for all of us.
After sundown tonight will be the equivalent of Nisan 14 according to the ancient Jewish calendar.
In Nisan 1433 CE, in harmony with Jehovah's will, Jesus willingly gave His perfect human life.
He did this to redeem mankind from the sin of Adam, our first human father.
Likely all of us are familiar with the account of Adam and Eve, our original earthly parents.
When Adam was created, he had the prospect of living forever.
That was Jehovah's original purpose.
Of course, Jehovah made it very clear that his enjoyment of everlasting life was dependent
on his obedience.
A simple, non-complicated, easy to follow test of obedience was established.
Don't eat from one tree in the garden.
Sadly, we all know what happened.
Under the influence of a renegade spirit creature sat in the devil, Eve partook of the fruit of that tree.
And Adam foolishly could not resist or offer, and he did the same.
By disobeying God, Adam lost the prospect of everlasting life.
But now, how did that affect us?
For the answer, please go to Romans chapter 5.
And let's read verse number 12.
That is why, just this through one man, Adam, sin entered into the world and death through sin.
And so, death spread to all men because he had all sinned.
You'll notice that death came from sinful Adam.
It didn't come from Jehovah.
Just as a serious genetic defect can be passed on to one's offspring, when Adam and Eve had children,
they passed on the death sentence.
But did you notice that long dash at the end of verse 12, we just read?
Why is it there?
It's because in Greek, Paul did not complete his thought.
He left a cliffhanger.
In Greek, whenever a sin that starts with the words just as, it should conclude with a clause that includes the words,
so also, thus completing the thought.
Well, in verse 12, Paul makes clear who is responsible for death.
Just this through one man, death spread.
But he leaves the resolution of the problem hanging.
However, in verse 19, using the same Greek grammar, Paul now completes the thought with so also.
Thereby, completing, we could say, the cliffhanger, let's read verse 19.
For just as, through the disobedience of the one man many were made sinners, so also,
through the obedience of the one person many will be made righteous.
Yes, Jesus is identified as the solution.
Thanks to Jesus giving his life in our behalf, now we have the hope of everlasting life.
Some have the hope of everlasting life in heaven.
But the vast majority have the hope of living forever in perfection on a beautifully restored earth.
After all, that was Jehovah's original purpose for the earth, was it not?
And whatever Jehovah starts, he finishes.
But now our text for today, Romans 8.16 is referring to those who have the hope of everlasting life in heaven,
serving alongside Christ in his Messianic kingdom.
Let's read it again together, Romans 8.16.
The spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are God's children.
But how does God's spirit bear witness with a person so that he knows he has been anointed
for a future role in heaven?
Well, the reason on this, let's go to the book of Acts.
And first, if you will, just scan Acts chapter 1 verses 4 and 5, which tell us about how Jesus
appeared to his followers a few days after he was resurrected and instructed them to stay in
Jerusalem and wait for a special gift, the Holy Spirit.
Well, true to Jesus' words, a few days later on the day of Pentecost, Holy Spirit was poured out.
About 120 disciples were assembled in an upper room and when that Holy Spirit filled them.
It was spectacular. Let's read about it in Acts chapter 2, beginning in verse number 2.
Suddenly there was a noise from heaven, just like that of a rushing stiff breeze,
and it filled the whole house where they were sitting, and tongues as if a fire became visible
to them, and were distributed, and one came to rest on each one of them.
And they all became filled with Holy Spirit and started to speak in different languages,
just as the spirit enabled them to speak.
These 120 disciples became the first ones to be anointed by Holy Spirit and given the hope of
ruling with Jesus in heaven. Obviously, they would never forget that experience.
For a certainty, there was no question in their minds that God's spirit bore witness with their
spirit. But now what about after that momentous event? Would all those chosen to be
with Christ in heaven have some miraculous display? Has did the 120?
The answers no. To reason on this point, let's go to verses 37 and 38 of Acts chapter 2,
which talk about what happened to thousands who became new anointed disciples later on that very
same day of Pentecost. Notice beginning of verse 37,
Now when they heard this, they were stabbed to the heart, and they said to Peter in the rest
of the apostles, man, brothers, what should we do? Peter said to them, repent, and let each one of
you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the
free gift of the Holy Spirit. Well, verse 41 indicates there were about 3,000 who were baptized.
But did you notice that even though they were anointed by Holy Spirit after their baptism,
they did not experience any of the spectacular manifestations that the 120 had experienced earlier
that very same day. But now this raises another question, does this account mean that newly anointed
ones will have God-spirit bear witness with their spirit on the day of their baptism? Again,
the answers no. To reason on this, please go to Acts chapter 8, and let's notice a very interesting
account that begins in verse 14. When the apostles in Jerusalem heard that Samaria had accepted the
Word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, and these went down and prayed for them
to get Holy Spirit, for it had not yet come upon any one of them, but they had only been baptized
in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands on them, and they began to receive Holy
Spirit. Well, these verses describe how the spirit-bearing witness with these anointed ones in Samaria
occurred sometime after their baptism, and that is what occurs in our time. Jehovah spirit bears
witness with a person sometime after his baptism, and after he or she has had opportunity to establish
a course of faithfulness. But now we ask, how does a person know clearly whether he or she
has the heavenly calling? Well, please go to 1 John chapter 2, and let's get some help with that
question. 1 John 2, verse 20, and you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you have
knowledge. Such ones have knowledge, they know for a certainty. They've been anointed. Now look at
verse number 27. And as for you, the anointing that you receive from Him remains in you, and you
do not need anyone to be teaching you. But the anointing from Him is teaching you about all things
and is true and is no lie. So anointed ones don't need confirmation from anyone else. Their anointing
is clear, true, affirmative. Think about it. The Holy Spirit is the most powerful force in the
universe. Jehovah used it to create the sun moon stars. He used it to create all life in heaven
and earth. He also used it to communicate his message to the Bible writers. In fact, Jehovah
is the greatest communicator in the universe. So if his powerful Holy Spirit bears witness with
a person, he is not going to communicate, maybe you have been called to heavenly life, leaving the
person in doubt, a dilemma, a quandary. No, it is going to be an absolute affirmative communication,
leaving the person with no question in his mind or heart. So if a person is wondering, if he is
anointed or not, the answer is obvious, isn't it? He is not. But what about the millions who do not
have this change of hope communicated to them by God's Spirit? Well, they have the glorious hope
that Jehovah originally purpose for mankind before there was any need for humans to be adopted to
the heavens, everlasting life in a paradise earth. In fact, just a few verses after our text for today,
in Romans 8, verse 21, it says, of human creation. The creation itself will also be set free from
enslavement to corruption and have the glorious freedom of the children of God. So whether our hope
is life in heaven or life on earth, how all of us as Jehovah's people worldwide look forward
to our marvelous hope of everlasting life. And later today, after sundown, when we observe the memorial
of the Lord's evening meal, we will commemorate, remember, the two greatest acts of love that have
ever been shown that make our wonderful hope possible. But now, let's ask Brother Robert Lucioni
to read the Watchtower comments on our scripture for today. How does a person know that he or she
has the heavenly calling? The answer is clearly seen in the Apostle Paul's words to those in Rome
who were called to be holy ones. In addition to the words of today's text, he told them,
you did not receive a spirit of slavery causing fear again, but you received a spirit of adoption
as sons, by which spirit we cry out, Abba, Father. So by means of his Holy Spirit,
God makes it clear to anointed ones that they have this heavenly calling. Jehovah leaves no doubt
whatsoever in the minds and hearts of those who receive his invitation to go to heaven.
Anointed Christians do not need anyone to confirm that they are anointed.
Thank you very much, Rob. Now, we look forward to our memorial Bible reading for today.
We will have the daytime events of Nysan 13 read from Luke 22 and Mark 14,
then the events after sundown which would have been Nysan 14 will be read from the latter part of
Luke 22. The specific text will appear on screen in your own language. The day of the unleavened
bread now arrived on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered. So Jesus sent Peter and John
saying, go and get the Passover ready for us to eat. They said to him,
where do you want us to get it ready? He said to them, look, when you enter into the city,
a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you. Follow him into the house that he enters
and say to the landlord of the house, the teacher says to you, where is the guest room where
I may eat the Passover with my disciples. And that man will show you a large furnished upper room.
Get it ready there. So they left and found it just as he had told them, and they prepared for the
Passover. Now, on the first day of the unleavened bread, when they customarily offered up the Passover
sacrifice, his disciples said to him, where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the
Passover? With that, he sent two of his disciples and said to them, go into the city and a man
carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you. Follow him and wherever he goes inside, say to
the master of the house, the teacher says, where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover
with my disciples. And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. Prepare it for us
there. So the disciples went out and they entered the city and found it just as he said to them,
and they prepared for the Passover. So when the hour came, he reclined at the table along with the
apostles, and he said to them, I have greatly desired to eat this Passover with you before I
suffer. For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
And accepting a cup, he gave thanks and said, take this, and pass it from one to the other
among yourselves. For I tell you, from now on, I will not drink again from the product of the vine
until the kingdom of God comes. Also, he took a loaf, gave thanks, broke it, and gave it to them,
saying, this means my body, which is to be given in your behalf. Keep doing this in remembrance of me.
Also, he did the same with the cup, after they had the evening meal, saying, this cup means the
new covenant by virtue of my blood, which is to be poured out in your behalf. But look, the hand
of my betrayer is with me at the table. For indeed, the son of man is going his way according to
what has been determined, all the same, woe to that man through whom he is betrayed.
So they began to discuss among themselves which one of them could really be about to do this.
However, there also arose a heated dispute among them over which one of them was considered
to be the greatest. But he said to them, the kings of the nations lured it over them,
and those having authority over them are called benefactors. You, though, are not to be that way.
But let the one who is the greatest among you become as the youngest, and the one taking the lead
as the one ministering. For which one is greater, the one dining, or the one serving?
Is it not the one dining? But I am among you as the one serving.
However, you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials, and I make a covenant with you
just as my father has made a covenant with me for a kingdom, so that you may eat and drink at my
table in my kingdom and sit on thrones to judge the twelve tribes of Israel. Simon, Simon, look,
Satan has demanded to have all of you to sift you as wheat, but I have made supplication for you
that your faith may not give out, and you, once you have returned, strengthen your brothers.
Then he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death.
But he said, I tell you, Peter, a rooster will not crow today until you have denied knowing me three times.
He also said to them, when I sent you out without a money bag and a food pouch and sandals,
you did not lack anything, did you? They said, no. Then he said to them,
but now let the one who has a money bag take it, likewise a food pouch, and let the one who has no
sword sell his outer garment and buy one. For I tell you that what is written must be accomplished
in me, namely, he was counted with lawless ones, for this is being fulfilled concerning me.
Then they said, Lord, look, here are two swords. He said to them, it is enough.
On leaving, he went as was his custom to the Mount of Olives, and the disciples also followed him.
On arriving at the place, he said to them, carry on prayer so that you do not enter into temptation.
And he withdrew from them about a stone straw away, and he bent his knees and began to pray,
saying, Father, if you want to remove this cup from me, nevertheless, let not my will, but yours take
place. Then an angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him, but he was in such agony
that he kept praying more earnestly, and his sweat became his drops of blood falling to the ground.
When he rose from prayer and went to the disciples, he found them slumbering, exhausted from grief.
He said to them, why are you sleeping? Get up and keep praying so that you do not enter into
temptation. While he was still speaking, look, a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the 12
was leading them, and he approached Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said to him, Judas, are you
betraying the Son of man with a kiss? When those around him saw what was going to happen,
they said, Lord, should we strike with the sword? One of them even struck the slave of the high
priest, taking off his right ear. But in reply, Jesus said, that is enough, and he touched the ear
and healed him. Jesus then said to the chief priests and captains of the temple, and elders
who had come there for him, did you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber?
While I was with you in the temple day after day, you did not lay your hands on me,
but this is your hour and the authority of darkness. Then they arrested him and led him off,
and they brought him into the house of the high priest. But Peter was following at a distance.
When they lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard and sat down together, Peter was sitting
among them. But a servant girl, seeing him sitting in the light of the fire, looked closely at him,
and said, this man was also with him. But he denied it, saying,
I do not know him, woman. After a short time, another person saw him and said,
you two are one of them. But Peter said, man, I am not. And after about an hour had passed,
another man began insisting strongly. Certainly, this man was also with him, for he is, in fact,
a Galilean. But Peter said, man, I do not know what you are saying.
And instantly, while he was still speaking, a rooster crowed. At this, the Lord turned and looked
straight at Peter, and Peter recalled the statement of the Lord when he had said to him,
before a rooster crowed today, you will disown me three times. And he went outside, and wept bitterly.
Now the men who held Jesus in custody began to mock him, hitting him, and after covering his face,
they kept asking,
prophesy, who is it that struck you? And they said many other blasphemous things against him.
Well, it has truly been a delight to speak today with millions of you dear ones around the world.
You precious sheep in Jehovah's flock. Be assured we love you all very, very much.
And may Jehovah be with all of us this evening, as we gather together physically if possible.
But especially, as we all gather to gather in spirit, to commemorate the most important event of
the year, the memorial of Christ's death, which is an incomparable gift from our Father, Jehovah.